[Music]
love death and robots the witness is
arguably one of the best looking
animations in the series the stylistic
and seedy thriller is fast paced and
bill to the brim with hidden meanings
and metaphors that deserve a lot of
attention throughout this video I'll be
breaking down everything that you need
to know about the short and its ending
as well as what we can take from it this
is full spoilers ahead so if you haven't
seen the episode yet then I highly
recommend that you turn off now without
the way thanks for clicking this video
I'm your host definition and welcome to
the channel where I explain it so you
don't have to on the surface the episode
follows our protagonist simply named the
woman as she witnesses a murder in an
apartment building across from where she
lives the victim shares a lot of
similarities with her and it seems like
the killer referred to simply as the man
not only has an mo but that he has a new
target when he looks over and sees that
the woman has spotted his crime this
begins a chase that lasts the entire
episode and follows the woman as she
attempts to flee her job and beyond
whilst the killer is in hot pursuit the
woman doesn't really attempt to alert
the authorities beyond an unhelpful
phone call in which he's unable to give
specifics too and she carries out her
day as normal even returning to her job
as a sex worker
the killer pursues her and even enters
to the depraved sex club where she works
and after the woman notices him the
chase continues the woman manages to
grab a gun from her boss's den and this
plays into the end eventually the killer
catches up with the woman and tries to
explain the circumstances but when she
pulls a gun at the - fired out with the
woman getting the upper hand and
managing to turn the tables on the man
murdering him in the process it's at
this point that she looks out the window
and realizes that there is a witness to
a crime who is none other than the man
and the pursuit begins again with the
now taking his place as the murderer so
what exactly can we take from this well
it's pretty clear from the after this
entire game of cat and mouse is one big
loop with the two alternating places
when the episode first opened we
actually witnessed the woman has the
killer with the man merely murdering her
in self-defense
thus she once again will become the
killer and the loop will likely last
until the end of eternity but how is
this possible well there's a few clues
in the episode that point towards the
characters both being trapped in either
purgatory or hell a demon like jester is
at the entrance of the woman's job her
boss is named Vladimir which could
perhaps be a reference to Vlad the
Impaler and though the club may be
exciting on the surface it's clear that
the workers about their humanity
stripped away from them even the man who
at some point seems to be enjoying it
realizes that this isn't right for him
and ends up fleeing to continue the
chase if it had been everything that
he'd hoped for he would have likely
stayed this is a nightmare situation for
the two with both unable to communicate
with one another and living in a
constant state of fear but there is a
key moment in the episode that showcases
what could have led to them and being in
this situation that happens when the
woman attempts to make a phone call to
the police but ends up watching it and
not really giving any helpful
information this combined with the title
of the witness leads me to believe that
both the characters at one point in
their lives who were witnesses to a
murder and neither came forward and thus
the killer was never caught
due to this both Adam to spend eternity
watching a murder play out and then
becoming a killer themself in order to
stop someone being able to identify them
it definitely adds a very sinister side
of the work and I think this helps to
elevate it above the majority of the
other episodes obviously this is a
slight fan theory so if you agree or
disagree with me then make sure you
leave your thoughts in the comments
below if you enjoyed this video then
please like it and make sure you check
out my full breakdown of the other love
death and robots episode Zima blue which
would be linked at the end this is the
channel for people who are never missing
television so if that's the kind of
thing you like you need to subscribe to
definition thanks again for taking the
time to watch this you've been the best
see you next time take care peace
[Music]